most of the supervised learning
algorithms have seen things like linear
regression logistic regression and so on
all of those algorithms had an
optimization objective or some cost
function that the album was trying to
minimize it turns out that k-means also
has an optimization objective or a cost
function that is trying to minimize and
in this video I'd like to tell you what
that optimization objective is and the
reason I want to do so is because this
will be useful to us for two purposes
first knowing what is the optimization
objective of k-means will help us to
debug the learning algorithm and just
make sure that k-means is running
correctly and second and perhaps even
more importantly in a later video we'll
talk about how we can use this to help
k-means find better clusters and avoid
local optima but we'll do that in a
later video that follows this one just
as a quick reminder while k-means is
running we're going to be keeping track
of two sets of variables first is these
CIS and that keeps track of the index or
the number of the cluster to which an
example X is currently assigned and then
the other set of variables we use this
mu subscript K which is the location of
cluster centroid K and again it for
k-means we use capital k to denote the
total number of clusters and here
lowercase K you know is going to be an
index into them into the cluster
centroids and so a lowercase K is going
to be a number between 1 and capital K
now here's one more bit of notation
which is I'm going to use mu subscript
CI to denote the cluster centroid of the
cluster to which example X I has been
assigned right and and you know just to
explain that notation a little bit more
let's say that X I
has been assigned to cluster number five
what that means is that CI that is the
index of X I that that is equal to five
right because you know having CI equals
five that's that's what it means for the
example X I to be assigned to cluster
number five
and so new subscript CI is going to be
equal to MU subsequent five because CI
is equal to five and so this mu
subscript CI is the cluster centroid of
cluster number five which is the cluster
to which my example X I as been assigned
armed with this notation we're now ready
to write out what is the optimization
objective of the k-means clustering
algorithm and here it is the cost
function that k-means is minimizing is a
function J of all of these parameters C
1 through CMM u 1 through UK that
k-means is varying as the average runs
and the optimization objective is shown
on the right is the average a 1 over m
of sum from I equals 1 through m of this
term here that sum I've just drawn the
red box around right over the squared
distance between each example X I and
the location of the cluster centroid to
which X I has been assigned so let me
just draw this in a limb just explained
is right so here's the location of
training example X I and here's the
location of the cluster centroid to
which example X I has been assigned so
to explain this in pictures if here's x1
x2 and if on a point here is my example
X I so if that is equal to my exam
X I and if X I has been assigned to some
cluster centroid will denote my cluster
centroid of a cross so if that's the
location of you know mu5 let's say if X
I has been assigned to cluster centroid
5000 bodies I have out there then this
squared distance that's the square of
the distance between the point X I and
this cluster centroid to which XR has
been assigned and what k-means can be
shown to be doing is that it is trying
to find parameter CI and you I trying to
find CMU to try to minimize this cost
function J this cost function is
sometimes also called the distortion
cost function of the distortion of a
k-means algorithm and just to provide a
little bit more detail here's the
k-means algorithm is a exactly the
algorithm as we have written it up on
the earlier slide and what this first
step of this algorithm is what this this
was the cluster assignment step where we
assign each point to the closest sync
cluster centroid and it's possible to
show mathematically that what the
cluster assignment step is doing is
exactly minimizing J with respect to the
variables C 1 C 2 and so on up to CM
while holding the cluster centroids new
1 up to MU K
fixed so what the cluster assignment
step does is you know it doesn't change
the cluster centroids but it's what it's
doing this is exactly picking the values
of c 1 c 2 up to CM that minimizes the
cost function or the distortion function
J and it's possible to prove that
mathematically but I won't i won't do so
here but it has a pretty intuitive
meaning of just you know well let's
assign each points to the cluster
centroid that is closest to it because
that's what minimizes the squared
distance between the points and the
corresponding cluster centroid and then
the other part of the second step of
k-means this second step over here the
second step was the move centroid step
and once again I won't prove it but it
can be shown mathematically that what
the roof centroid step does is it
chooses the values of MU that minimizes
J so it minimizes the cost function J
with respect to o wrt is my abbreviation
for worth respect to but minimizes J
with respect to the locations of the
cluster centroids mu 1 through mu naught
okay so what he means really is doing is
this taking the two sets of variables
and partitioning them into two halves
right here plus the see sets of
variables and you have the Meuse as a
variables and what it does is it first
minimizes J with respect to the variable
C and then minimize this gate with
respect to the variables view and then
it keeps on iterating
and so that's all that k-means does and
now that we understand k-means is trying
to minimize this cost function J we can
also use this to try to debug a learning
algorithm and just kind of make sure
that our implementation of k-means is
running correctly so we now understand
the k-means algorithm as trying to
optimize this cost function J which is
also called the dispersion function we
can use that to debug k-means and help
me show that k-means is converging and
is running properly and in the next
video we'll also see how we can use this
to help k-means find better clusters and
healthcare needs to avoid local optima